welcome everybody to another episode of
after impact
agent Smith is not here today so I'm
filling in some of you may know me some
you may not know me I go by dr. Vanessa
ah damn right and I feel silly for me to
say when other people say to them like
yeah that's me that's me yeah I'm going
to say now
so today Tom and I going to be
discussing our most current interview
well not ours but Tom's
with Jason Maidan we have lots to say
about him and mops down pack so and just
a reminder this content is adding any
value to you we only asked you to share
whatever you have to say in your
thoughts to the community so I guess
we're going to just dive right in and
talk about mr. Maidan there it is and to
give you guys just like a little bit of
a preamble dr. finesse and I were just
talking about doing a Tom and dr.
Vanessa our of some kind pop culture
related around movies and space hmm
which that could be interesting so
definitely drop in your thoughts let us
know we're going to be building out a
whole bunch of media focused content in
the very near future building out a new
set which I'm very excited about so yeah
we will see where that ends up but that
would be a lot of fun to get pretty
great so first and foremost one of the
first things you said in the interview
you said that he's a modern-day Lucius
Fox Jake Jason amazing as a modern-day
lesha's Fox and I guess if you could
describe to the audience because some
people may not know who Lucius Fox is
describe who he is and why Jason Reagan
is a modern-day recent box yeah for sure
it's interesting he actually calls
himself the modern-day Lucius Fox which
I loved and that was why wore the Batman
t-shirt that day on set he's really into
comic books and I think partly because
he's so artistic that may have been what
drew him in the beginning to the world
of comic books and then obviously we
gravitate towards characters that
resonate with us in some way so Lucius
Fox is the CEO of Wayne Enterprises also
happens to be african-american and he's
played by Morgan Freeman in
the movies and lucious knows that Bruce
Wayne is actually Batman so he's one of
the very small number of people that
knows and he's the one that leverages
Wayne industries
I think it's technically Wayne
Enterprises leverages Wayne Enterprises
to create like the Batmobile and all
that so that's all Lucius behind the
scenes I think the reason that Jayson
considers himself the modern-day Lucius
Fox is because he takes a concept and
knows how to make it real and that was
something that I really really found
interesting about him and he talks about
this in the episode is it's not enough
to draw a pair of shoes so Jason was
saying look I can draw but that's not
the same as designing designing has
intent behind it designing is going
after an audience trying to solve a
particular problem and so he goes
through in the episode of how he breaks
it down so far like B Hague or big hairy
audacious goal is to basically mimic god
what did he call it flight or lyft
dynamics or something like that I forget
the exact phrase he was talking about as
like their grand vision and he says how
does that really translate like really
translate down to a shoe and if it's the
quick first step and that's going to be
our parallel using the analogy of light
then how do we actually get to that is
it reducing the weight is it finding
lower weight higher strength items like
spider silk and things like that and
then where in the world are they
actually best-in-class at dealing with
spider silks so that we can actually get
it put into the shoes and that was
something that I really really enjoyed
about film nights book about founding
Nike and how often he was traveling to
manufacturing plants and as somebody
with a manufacturing background like
that's where this all gets really really
interesting that's why I love him
referring to himself as a modern-day
Lucius Fox because Lucius Fox is
execution it's where the rubber meets
the road it's we're taking that high
level concept which is where most people
stop they pacify themselves with a dream
they never move on to doing the hard
work of actually going how do I take
this drawing of a shoe and really turn
it into something is that my wife with
an alarm like did that really just
happen I wrong and half the heckler at
the end of the show
because normally she'd be the one having
a seizure like your phone so that that
to me is is the juice man like when
people know how to execute that's
everything I've heard you say execution
matters so I hope you've heard me say
only exit oh yes yes
correction only execution that it is now
so jason refers to himself as a
modern-day lucius fox i'm going to
loosely refer to him as a modern-day
Jesse Jackson and I mean Jesse Jackson
from like the 70s and the early 80s
because one of my earliest memories is
sitting around watching the news my mom
in the late 70s seeing this man talk
about empowerment and motivation and
what have you and he would rhyme and
even if he wasn't remand he would put
his words together and I remember
thinking night this guy sounds like
someone off of Sesame Street okay but in
a cool way I'm like he put his words
together so eloquently and did he just
rhyme and I know Jason didn't quite
rhyme but it's the way he constructed
his words they hit home and looking at
the comments on YouTube I'm seeing that
people like well this quote here this
quote here yeah and I'm like one of the
first ones that stood out to me was when
you're tested you're given the ability
to give a testimony yeah you can't have
a testimony without a test and I
remember when we were watching it while
you guys are taping I was like oh and I
looked at you and I was like he's gonna
say something about it you're like are
you a rapper or whatever do you like
hip-hop yeah so any first of all any
quotes many of the quotes stand out for
you and what's your comment on him and -
I really need to write them down because
I would do a disservice to try to
remember them now and I throw out a
couple in the episode but I was struck
by that not it not only when I was
researching him but live there on -
because I had I didn't take a note on
like oh man this guy should be a hip-hop
artist or anything but as he was talking
and I was experiencing it in a way that
I wasn't when it was just research I was
like yeah like this like I didn't think
Sesame Street that's a way cooler
wait but I was like legitimately one
thing I think a lot about is in a
parallel universe I'd become a hip-hop
artist because I love language so much
and so and I'll float this out into the
universe
I took a note probably almost a year ago
now I want to work with a producer to
turn like what I'm doing impact quotes
is phase one of what I would love to see
which is essentially spoken word over
meat like real music that's been imposed
for that so right now we I do the impact
quote in a bubble which by the way those
are done in a single take we just
[__] burn through it and then the
music we try to find something that sort
of matches and sort of goes but I would
love to do something that's that's
really all condensed and and really done
together and so when he was doing that I
was like whoa like this guy has taken a
real step towards that like the way he
talked in real time I feel like I should
be writing music so I can go but just
like his normal talk evaluator so and
it's because of that becomes more
memorable like to give you an idea he
like you said he wasn't rhyming but this
will give you an idea cognitively of
what the brain does when it finds
language that has like a meter to it
okay things that rhyme are perceived to
be something like 70% more true I think
about that I could tell you a lie but if
it rhymes
it just seems more true and the same I
believe even though the study was
specifically on rhyming I think they
would find the same things with like
cadence okay so the own to have a
testimonial you have to be tested right
like there's just a balance to that
state yeah so there's there's um rhythm
there's the number of syllables like if
you actually listen to a lot of rap
songs you'll notice it doesn't actually
rhyme but the the symbol or the syllable
count that they've created allows there
to be a rhythm your
there's no rhyme and so it still feels
right and when people have an ability to
bring that into language that's when it
gets really really interesting and now
do you remember I'm not sure sort of
what the political correctness of this
statement is but when I was in high
school I talked a lot about Ebonics
mm-hmm and like what is the vibe on that
by the way
Ebonics that likes or agender says it's
a term I've not heard and forever
actually forgot about that term but hey
it was a legit term right I gave her
back when we were a big thing yeah you
and I are in high school was like
Ebonics was the thing and there was this
group of african-americans in my school
and they used language in a way I found
so incredible I remember thinking the
phrase that I kept thinking was they
have more fun with language than I do
and I was legitimately jealous of the
unique phrases that they would make that
they would change like the tense of
something so they would use like an
incorrect tense or much instead of many
but it sounded better and so I was like
wow like much like the French language
like their only rule is sound good that
that was the vibe that I got and so I
always found that fascinating and that's
what I love about hip-hop is they
prioritize rhythm they prioritize
balance they prioritize their change the
pronunciation of a word to make it rhyme
and you like it better because they've
changed it oh yeah so anyway I could go
on a diatribe on that forever but I have
a secret fantasy of doing that with
impact quotes Jason made in real time
more than any human being I've ever met
in my life
did that where there was just like I
wanted to believe and live by the words
he was saying just because they sounded
so right you're right there was a
cadence and to your remark about hip hop
and their language it over the course of
the last 20 30 years
it's invaded our vernacular and I hear
people even just a common businessman
would say something and not even know
where the phrase came from right you're
going to mean and I'd be like that's
from a particular song in
pop in particular there's so many I mean
I could we can go on and on about that
but yeah I mean that's that's
fascinating about the rhyming thing and
even when you don't run just the way you
put the words together because whatever
got his cadence and the way he put his
word together it made me listen and I've
noticed people remarking about that um
really fast can we just be real on this
a little bit more oh so I've been a fan
of hip-hop for a very very long time you
and I have talked about early 80s hip
hop which when I really got into the
scene again drawn to it because of
language I don't have synesthesia but I
believe that those things so synesthesia
for anybody that doesn't know is a
mixing of the senses the most common
form of synesthesia is number color so
the number seven is always red the
number three is always blue and because
they have another sense associated with
that they can they can memorize like
they're one of the most famous number
color synesthetes also is he's a number
color shape Cinna steep and he at one
point I don't know if he still does but
at one point he had the record for the
most numbers of Pi memorized something
like 25,000 digits it's crazy right it
took him something like 18 hours just to
go through them it was ridiculous and
because of those associations he has an
easier time with remembering numbers and
are doing complex math in his head
vladimir nabokov is one of the most
famous authors who is a sin estate and
he english was his fifth language and if
you've ever read a book by a Nabokov
that he wrote natively in English you'll
realize okay this guy in his bit
language knows English better than I did
like by a lot it's actually kind of
demoralizing especially for me as
somebody who fancies himself a writer so
while I am NOT a synesthete it's a
spectrum and there is and I would bet
that Jason is is along the spectrum like
I am where words have texture to me so
I'll give you a really easy example okay
bubble feels right right if I say bubble
to you you don't think anything sharp
like even if you didn't really they've
done this experiment where though
they'll give you to made-up words or cuz
it's not like bubble which you can
already envision cuz you've seen bubbles
in your life but they can do this with
made-up words and they'll ask people
which one of these is sharp which one of
these is round and it's like 93 percent
of people will pick the same word even
when it's totally made-up so I have a
very extreme sense of words having
textures of feeling a certain way of
actually like bouncing or moving or
having more velocity so like when I'm
writing my intros in fact I just one
that I wrote yesterday for Noah Galloway
the I focus a language on velocity I
wanted it to have speed hmm and because
of what he had been through and so I
wanted to convey that so it's like when
when you begin to tap into a language at
a different level I think you're able to
affect people on sort of an invisible
plane and that's where Jesse Jackson
that's where Jason Maidan like they're
bringing some of those techniques to the
real world which I am I think is super
powerful and when I think about Jason
old I really think this guy's got a shot
if he can succeed in business I think
he's got a shot of being the mayor and
which he talks about in the other and I
think that the thing that will empower
him the most is his ability to affect
people on an emotional visceral level
with language Wow I mean again it's one
of those things you take for granted
because you think about some of our most
amazing speakers in history they choose
their words wisely they say certain
words they do certain gestures they and
they you know they put they construct
their sentences in a certain way and
I've never got you know even Obama like
even before anyone usually was for the
most part outside of Washington when he
was at the Democratic National
Convention and afterward everyone who
was that guy who spoke right we went
there for topics we went there to show
and pull people aside in the rhythm and
that was the first time I believe that
Tavis an interview wanted to give you
interviewed him before but that was one
of the first things I thought about him
and the way this guy is putting his word
forget it
and it was like almost like gasps we
ever hear jazz always the thing about
jazz people say like all over the place
and I know like I've heard the
conference on jazz but you'll hear any
jazz aficionado say no no you got to
listen in between the notes
it's the notes between the note right
remember forever
how does that mean that notes we know
notes but as the more and more I listen
to jazz and understand jazz I get it
and I feel like people like Obama I can
think of several other people they treat
how they talk like jazz because it's not
just the words it's the positives that
he has and the space between the words
and the sentences that he makes and we
all know that about Obama we're talking
and it was stopped and you'd be like oh
it makes you back all right
it's so interesting to hear you say that
and I didn't think about that Here I am
thinking like all Jason Maidan is just a
simple talker which he is of course but
he clearly knows what he's doing with
how he's putting his words together and
you as a speaker and going around doing
these gigs and gigs and his music we
gotta at him speaking clearly you
understand that to more than the average
person and that's one of the things I
think people take for granted and even
in this moment while you're telling me
sigmund I've been taking that for
granted but that's amazing I had
languages language is insanely powerful
and some of like you were saying back in
the day when the only way you could
reach a mass audience was public
speaking so people had to get really
good at that I that a little bit I miss
that there was a just being able to give
a talk that was in rapturing that was
captivating was a way for people to
really get people going behind them
because I think that when you are a good
communicator that's going to serve you
either on a mass scale or small scale
your ability to get people around a
shared vision which is one of the things
that makes a great orator and that's not
something I think people spend a lot of
time on but when I think about of my way
more than 10,000 hours of practice that
I put into communication behind the
scenes and I think other than this
interview I don't think I've ever talked
this much about my obsession with words
the way that i think about language and
how much time and energy I put into
practicing it looking upwards and I
don't know them trying to extend my
vocabulary
I am I very much steal from any group
that I think is having fun with language
so an obsession I had when I was in
England was cockney rhyming slang and
like that all of that stuff is is really
really fascinating and I think that so I
believe intelligence is built not just
given at birth but I really really
believe that one's ability to
effectively and strategically use
language pauses inflection all of that
is a sign of where your intellect is and
that's why we we find ourselves drawn to
people that can really like crawl inside
our minds and just grab a hold of us Wow
and we're look we're an animal that
learned to pass on culture which is how
like knowledge stacks so rapidly through
language and so we're we are an animal
attuned to language even the way that
our ears work in the frequency that we
hear in is all around speech it's
designed to capture like the vocal range
that we speak in so yeah there's there's
a lot there and now I'm really I'm being
super indulgent but I hope people follow
some of these threads on their own
Geoffrey Canada I've talked a lot about
one day we'll be on this show trying
who'd be fast it would be amazing and
his whole thing about looking at what
actually what is it mechanistically that
makes somebody who grows up in the inner
cities have a harder time being
successful than somebody who grows up in
a middle-class family and when he just
cut through all the BS and realized it's
the number of words you hear by the age
of five so really the number the number
of words you hear by the age of five and
the ratio of positive to negative that's
it he said everything boils down to that
and that's when you said the most
heartbreaking thing I've ever heard
which is I gave up on adults and now I
just look for women who are pregnant or
may become pregnant and I teach them
about reading to your kids and about
that ratio and it's supposed to be 70
percent
positive to 30% negative and he said in
the inner cities it's not only do they
hear mill it's something like the
numbers are approximate what is
something like five million words in a
middle-class household by the time
you're and it's full disclosure it was
either three or five I think it's five
but five million words by the time
they're five and seventy percent of
positive 30 percent of negatives in the
inner cities it's three million words by
the time they're five and it's seventy
percent negative and only thirty percent
positive and he said that the disruptive
effect are not even disruptive but the
the way that it stops their language
centers from forming he said is the real
problem and then as you get older you
can't articulate yourself well and he
was like it's that is the problem is
that it really is that simple like the
ability to communicate is so
foundational that without it you're in
real trouble and then that makes
complete sense and I hadn't I agree and
Wow that's a it's an amazing stat have
to look more into that on the show I'll
be to go I'll go hella deep with him
okay well on that note Jason he'd
mentioned that some of the greatest
entrepreneurs come out of being you know
part of the disenfranchised and yeah and
that to me was it made sense because I
mean I'll start by saying not that you
know that bitter guy who always thought
oh everyone who's rich and and has
something going on for them it was
passed on it's nepotism they got a spoon
in their mouth but you know the older I
got the more I started learning more
about entrepreneurs and even counselors
who come through here it's amazing how
many of them the bean Jane you and I
mean John Paul DeJoria
I mean the list goes on people who are
part of the disenfranchised and the
differences they applied themselves and
they use that as the hustle to move
forward and it's one of what your
thoughts were on that let's go deep now
we're really going to [__] derail I
love this so much I'm so glad the Jason
brought it up so have you ever heard the
phrase t-shirt to t-shirt in three
generations no all right this is just
gave me the chills
so the notion is generation one starts
in the t-shirt having to work their ass
off they're off
time certainly when this phrase came
about they were immigrants
so the immigrant parents come here
they're you know their kids are wearing
teachers because they can't afford
anything else the kids see inhuman work
ethic because the people that leave
their country they're brave quite
frankly right you're going somewhere
totally unknown and a hundred years ago
like you can imagine going to the new
world a big city like you'd across the
ocean a lot of people died just in the
journey and then getting here you
probably knew nobody you knew that you
were going to be the immigrant class so
there's going to be a lot of hatred a
lot of prejudice against you and you
were going to have to rise up just
through blood sweat and tears their kids
see that so the kids are the ones now
that end up becoming successful and I
mean so we're we have to acknowledge
that the the inner cities eat most
people okay it just it's an absolutely
destructive force but the people who
make it through that insane pressure
cooker the people that have it hard the
people that have to suffer when they
come out the other side they are
extraordinary because they've been
tested they can give their testimonial
right so that pressure cooker really
turns certain coals into diamonds and
then they go on to do something
extraordinary but their kids now have
grown up affluent they don't go through
the same pressure cooker and everybody
and this is the thing that scares me to
death about being a parent I know your
every impulse is to make Ellison's life
as easy as possible yeah for it to be
happy and it filled with joy and to
never know sadness but now let's get
really [__] esoteric let's talk about
the Buddha if you know the story of the
Buddha he was the prince he was the son
of the King decor may not have been the
son of the King was sung as a king or a
very wealthy person he lived inside this
palace never went outside his father
wanted to protect him from seeing
suffering and because of all of that he
basically is not living a human
experience he finally gets out he sees
suffering for the first time it totally
radically changes his world and in that
he ends up becoming the Buddha because
he wants to end suffering and to do that
he has to really understand
suffering so it's like trying to remove
people from the situation is to deny the
very thing that's going to toughen them
up right and so what does the Buddha do
he goes hard and on suffering fasting
living this totally monk life isolated
life to figure this stuff out but he has
to go through the difficulties the
absolute same thing is true whether
you're talking about God take I always
return to just growing up in the inner
cities it's such a poignant example in
in the modern context jay-z dr. Dre
which if you watch you've seen the
documentary I write the Defiant one go
watch the Defiant measuring absolute
phenomenal is so interesting to see
Jimmy Iovine juxtaposed with dr. Dre and
like four different ways each of them
learned their lessons and just really
really powerful
Eminem like all these people that go
through this insane hardship but it's
what makes them great because they know
like I've got to get [__]
extraordinary at something to get out
right and jay-z's story to me is is this
sort of the best of all of them of
somebody who doesn't set out to be a
rapper he sees a path to get out through
hustling through drug dealing
he takes it realizes this is maybe not a
great path starts doing music realizes
Jesus that's an even bigger dead end
than doing selling drugs goes back to
selling drugs but then because he had
gone hard on it for a minute people knew
how good he was and so then they're like
just constantly going after Mike come on
come on come on come on you've got to
come back into this and then obviously
we know the rest of the story and and it
isn't a surprise to me that given the
hardship that he had to go the man shot
his own brother right so like and
hearing him talk about how like he was
thinking in his head please don't make
me shoot you like those those hardships
going through things like that having to
live a life where it's even a thought to
shoot your own brother because you have
to draw such a brutal line in the sand
to not be taken advantage of in such a
doggy-dog environment utterly
astonishing same thing with James Maidan
right sees his
friend up close gets shot in the faces
I'm not mistaken it's just like crazy
like thinking about that people actually
grow up like that's absolutely nuts but
it it pushed Jason to say I'm getting
out and the only path that I see is to
become extraordinary at something so
putting people through that difficulty
really turns them into something some
people yeah right but you need that
pressure cooker so going back to t-shirt
to t-shirt and three generations so
generation one they're in the pressure
cooker and to get out a small number of
them become extraordinary because
they're just hell-bent to get out and
they realize the only way is to be so
good that people can't ignore you then
their kids grow up with no hardship
their parents are trying to protect the
life out of them and in wanting to
protect them actually do them a
disservice and one of the reasons that
Lise and I've chosen not to have kids is
I don't want to have to do that I don't
want to have to put somebody through its
it I know it's necessary and I can think
of nothing worse yeah so because they
don't grow up with any hardships they're
never formed into the diamond it never
crystallizes their own thinking it never
forces them because this is just the
truth of the human psyche when you feel
worthless when you feel stupid when you
feel inadequate you either accept your
faith which most people do or you push
back and one of the greatest in fact
I'll quote another impact theory royalty
David Goggins oh yes and he said the
best thing that ever happened to me is
nobody came to help me oh yeah the best
thing that ever happened to me no one
came to help me and then he realized I
have to do it and I think when you look
I had the same realization right I
didn't go through his hardships not by
any stretch of the imagination mine was
a personal battle of feeling stupid and
I realized nobody's coming to help me
like I have to find a way out of this
and what I began to dissect was what is
the nature of self-esteem and when I
realized that I could build my
self-esteem around something other than
already being great that that changed
everything in my life so but it only
happened because I remember laying on
the laying on the floor of my apartment
with my face
against the carpet being like I'm a
[__] bozo I felt like I had failed at
film school I had a dead-end job this is
I was selling video games and I was like
where am I going
I was the self-proclaimed king of
remedial jobs but part of me knew that
was really [__] stupid and so I'm
like where's this hole going and if I
hadn't been that low where it's like
there's literally nowhere to go but up
I never wouldn't I never would have been
forced to like think my way out of the
problem so I'm grateful for that I'm
grateful that I felt dumb and inadequate
and that my life was going to end up
like I felt like solely Airy I was just
smart enough to realize how dumb I was
and that I I secretly wished like
couldn't I have been a little dumber or
a little bit smarter but to put me right
in this zone where I felt like I'm
condemned to see how good it could be if
I were smarter and not dumb enough to
just be arrogant like when you meet like
the really arrogant people who just seem
like they're just so stoked and where
they are just like dude you're not very
good you seem totally blind to that yeah
and so there was and it's foolish I
recognize that now but I was envious of
people like that that didn't seem to
have anxiety nothing's like they were
just blindly moving forward so because I
had that it pushed me because Jason had
the difficulties that he had it pushed
him because I'm an M because jay-z right
like they all go through this and so
they they end up having a chance at real
greatness
so first generation makes the money
second generation spends the money and
then third generations back in a t-shirt
because there's nothing left and there's
been no lessons passed on to them and so
your only hope then is that that
generation feels as frustrated as the
first generation felt that build
something and they've got a chance to
build something anew so t-shirt to
t-shirt three generations you have to
build difficulty into somebody's life
you can't want to isolate them and put
them in a bubble because that's not the
way the human animal works
respond to stressors and from the
stressors from the tearing the tearing
down of the muscle the muscle is then
rebuilt but you have to have that
stimulus of pain and suffering and
destruction like that's the only way
that some and this is why it's
terrifying and this may be what I always
found fascinating about Harry Potter
people died in Harry Potter Yeah right
like that was one thing I actually
respected about that series I was like
alright good you're not safe Harry
Potter universe like they're real
consequences and so you have to
acknowledge that that's why it's so
terrifying in life because like maybe
the more you think about it you'd be
like I actually want Ellison to suffer
and not always be great and to be put in
these difficult situations but you're
never going to send him to be out back
in Australia to like well I hope nothing
gets you but man if you come back right
like do you know I don't know if this is
actually true but then certainly the
legend of Spartacus is that if a baby
seemed weak they would just put it on a
hillside it was like well if it survived
then it's tough and we know all as well
it doesn't then it are they were weak
and it wasn't meant to be
yeah that's that's I would definitely
definitely never had the power to do
that but the baby out there activating
the first three months a little bit
harder they get the baby out of here
so I mean III do want me that why you
weren't really deep on that so they made
me think about a couple other things so
for the disenfranchised to people who
who've had it hard and you know pull
themselves up and get out of there get
out of their situation and become even
greater than they could even imagine
what about the bulk of the folks because
it still seems to be a small percentage
how do we and I'm not expecting you to
you know solve the problem I like it
okay they are how do we solve that
problem for them for the masses the
enemy for the people who feel like
they're worthless for the people who
feel like they're at a dead-end life who
just can't get out of that situation
that's what that's what I wonder about
you know Christopher a I'm super excited
that you're asking that question and
that you're doing it legitimately is not
a setup B am horrified that
you that I have done such a bad job
communicating the mission of this
company that you don't realize that is
the question that I asked myself saying
no [__] what would it take to reach
people because the problem is mindset
their frame of references so asked you
that they can't see that the answer is
they need a different operating system
and apps are easy operating systems are
hard and most people in life they try to
give you an app so your operating system
is on the failure I'm a loser I could
never do this I'm not good enough its
water right that that's why I use the
analogy of the operating system like you
never think of interacting with the
operating system the operating system is
what allows you to run all the other
stuff but if the operating system has a
problem everything else is going to have
a problem so but the operating system is
so ubiquitous that it becomes water and
that's what you have to and by that I'm
talking about David Foster Wallace
concept that this is water the fish is
the last one to realize that they are in
water that humans had to discover air
that it's so ever-present you just don't
even think about it or gravity we had to
discover gravity it's so present and
ubiquitous that you don't even realize
it's a thing so any human beings that
operating system that water is your mind
set it is your core belief system
Einstein said the most important
decision any human being will ever make
is whether or not the universe works for
you or against you and I think his
actual words were as a hostile or
friendly universe we all have to decide
that we decide it because neither is
objectively true you just decide am i
optimistic or my pessimism or in agent
Smith's Smith's case he's cautiously
optimistic food cop-out ready Gaza City
uh uh but that's like we all have to
make that decision right so when I look
at the masses and I say okay how do we
pull this off the answer is how do you
change the water they cannot need to be
aware of the change okay
they can't need to be aware of the
change what are the elements that make
up their mindset their parents their
environment those are the biggest so the
only way to change the parents is by
changing the water so sort of in
Geoffrey Canada's language I give up on
the adults right so I consider myself a
filtering mechanism for adults there are
some that are going to immediately
respond to the notions and they'll grab
them and gravitate and then some are
just going to be I know that if I can
get the next generation that those kids
will ultimately become the next
generation of parents and so now you've
got the parents just the next generation
so it goes like this the way that we
construct the environmental water is
through narrative it's through all the
cultural stories that we pass on what
are the five dominant forms of narrative
they are books comic books TV shows
movies and video games so I want to make
sure that we're influencing that world
and I I'm tempted to put music in there
people talk a lot about music and maybe
I'm just setting it aside because I
don't have yet an intention to be
involved in that or maybe because I
think that music is actually drawing so
heavily from those other five that I'm
better off putting my energies there but
I will merely point out look how many
songs reference Scarface look how many
zones reference Jordan Belfort visions
like you know the wolf of Wall Street so
it's I think if you influenced that
stuff it will so echo throughout culture
and that's the only way that I know to
do it where they don't have to want to
encounter it they just will encounter it
so is the concept of don't try to change
behavior try to leverage it so I know
people read books comic books they watch
TV shows movies and they play video
games I know that and nothing that I say
or do is going to change that because
they tap into emotion to make you feel
something you covet the experience you
pursue it so our whole goal here at
impact theory is to inset people there
so like this show like impact Theory the
main show is to me is closer to asking
people to change their behavior than it
is to truly leveraging behavior but I
know that we can by filtering out for
the people that are already coming and
looking for this kind of
we can build a following the following
is what gives us power as we go pitch
these entities to the Hollywood system
which does not have the discipline to
tell the right kind of story in my
opinion they just want to tell any story
that sells and hey I get it we have to
do things that sell as well my thesis is
that empowerment is actually the easiest
thing on the planet to sell if it's
embedded in something else mmm so that's
the mission wow that's great
I'm not saying I mean I'm assuming this
isn't Jason's immediate solution to the
problem I just presented but it
definitely helped and he had mentioned
that everybody in your inner circles you
should have at least one person that
does something better than you and to me
that was interesting because I think I
know a lot of people especially in this
city and some friends that I have who
were the exact opposite they want to be
the top dog they just want to be the
person who is exceeding at everything
and doing better than everyone else but
when he said that I mean it's something
that I think of but I think it's
important to have to learn from someone
close to you somebody near in a circle
and it kind of keeps you on your toes
and fresh and I'm wondering with you
what you feel about that
well I love it I think that's a really
great idea but I think the the more
important question is to ask why is that
the case for so many people and I think
people I have made a name for myself by
saying the thing that everyone sort of
secretly thinks in the back of their
head but they judge themselves for and
so they don't want to say it out loud
here's the truth being the best is
awesome and it feels better than being
the learner okay right that's just the
truth so I have to do all these mental
gyrations to reward myself for being the
learner okay I have to do exactly zero
mental gyrations to feel good about
somebody saying damn you're so good at
that you're the best ever right yes you
come out at birth being prepared to like
emotionally feel that yeah so I think
Carol Dweck says reward the process
not the result it's like rewarding the
result is where everybody goes there's
something just built into us we want to
be the best and so historical societies
fell prey to what's called Dunbar's
number Dunbar's number says any
tight-knit group can only be a hundred
to 150 big and then it splinters off I
think that's probably about right and
yes it's also because that's about the
number of people that you can have
intimate relationships with about the
number of people that you can really
remember a certain amount of history all
that I think it's also about the number
where you will as a member of that tribe
be better at something than anyone else
and so you can really shine and feel
good about yourself you find your place
in the group you just feel awesome and
that's how like that's the default
setting that's the water that's where we
all start I don't have to tell you a lie
just comes pre-baked into you to want to
be the greatest at something to feel
good about that and so getting outside
of that is very very difficult
so until people acknowledge that that
just feels awesome and so now I know
it's a trap okay my brain has set me up
millions of years of evolution has moved
me towards this moment where I'm going
to feel great for that and so now how do
I not fall prey to that so I'll give it
to you in a relationship context on my
tattoo one of my strongest things to my
wife is the word commitment because what
I had said so early in our relationship
was I'm always going to find other
people attractive you need to get real
comfortable with that now I know you're
always going to find other people
attractive now how do I know that you're
wired to like it is an evolutionary
thing for you to be attracted to a
potential mate period always but being a
human and having a prefrontal cortex I
know that you also can choose not to act
on that and that you can do other things
to make sure that you focus on things in
our relationship that are totally unique
to that shared experiences my personal
obsession so that you can stay committed
and not act in accordance that now
that's me I think about that the power
of that all that but one of the most
exhilarating emotional moments of my
life was when an attractive female came
up to me my wife is standing right next
to me ask my wife for permission
pet my ABS that's [__] awesome did
you realize right I was like hell yeah
I've told that story so many times
because you didn't have to tell me to
think that was cool uh like you couldn't
stop know exactly I said it wasn't cool
on you like your line right of course it
was cool yeah so but until you can
acknowledge what a trap that is that you
like that's how people fall prey to this
[__] is like you've got to be so careful
just because it's real emotionally
doesn't mean that it's advantageous yeah
and so really beginning to peel those
things apart so your friend who's in a
group and they want to be dominant it's
because it's awesome right it's that
[__] feel so good and so like I'm not
going to judge them like I totally get
it but inside my heart is breaking for
them because it's a trap now you're
never going to move on because here's
the reality of being around somebody
who's better than you like I I think of
you all the time because you're so good
at building a network you're so good at
like connecting people and like figuring
out like how you can help them how they
can help you and being strategic and
playing the long game like in fact this
is for everybody out there when the team
started pitching me people in the early
days of inside Quest I was [__] so
hardcore like don't [__] pitch this
person again they're absolutely not
right for the show I know what's best
for the show like look we're trying to
do something different here and over
time I began to realize they're so much
better than you at this and they've
snuck guests in that you didn't want to
interview and then in the research
process you start going whoa like this
person is actually really interesting
and then they come on set and they blow
you away and I thought lesson learned
there better let them be better that's
an amazing thing do not try to take any
pride from like knowing what guests to
bring on the show trust these guys so
now when you guys pitch I'm like I don't
see what you see in this person here's
what I see but if you really feel that
this is going to crush I'm going to do
it is that absolutely true and it's true
true and then when you present that it
puts the weight on me and I think like
okay maybe they won't crashing and I
back down right and I'm just like yeah
okay and I yeah that comes from knowing
that yes it feels good to believe that I
know best to believe it right not not
bravado it feels awesome to believe that
I have the best vision but it's way more
powerful if it's actually true that you
have it because then you have leverage
if I have to be the best at everything
if I actually am the best at everything
then we're only going to go as far as my
skill set can taken but if I can be
surrounded by people where I'm the best
some things they're the best at others
now we've got this force multiplier
effect of were as good as everyone's
best and that starts to get really
powerful so you're out there getting
better and better by the day at doing
what you do I'm out here getting better
and better at what I do every day and
that's something that what I hope
becomes the the enduring core of this
company is that each of us are like that
person is best-in-class at what they do
because I know people are trying to hire
you right you told me about the other
day don't go trying to like steal you
away so like my secret hope is because
no one's like I'm not going to win the
battle with just money so I'm hoping
that there's this other part which is
you're like do Tom is better than me at
some things and he's out there every day
killing himself to keep getting better
and better and better at that but maybe
more importantly he's making room for me
to be best in class at what I do
and he's not trying to steal my shine
and that to me like you want to know one
of the things that I prize in a teammate
do they want their teammates to shine
like do they actually want sometimes to
just sit back and be like I want this
[__] to shine and I want to tell
other people how they're crushing it
right that to me needs to be a core part
of what we're doing an impact Theory
where it's like it's something we talk
about it's baked into the culture like
if you don't want other people to shine
like you're just not going to fit in
here
I don't care if you're the greatest of
all time like if you can
sit back and be like a this person
shines that this let's all stop and
recognize let's stop and recognize that
this come through this company would be
fundamentally different and worse if it
weren't for their contributions because
it feels good
Oh that'd be great now that's a route
it's that's great I was amazing answer
and amazing anything alone I'm gonna get
to a question from Chris Barry
here's Barry because Barry he said I
love the idea of doing a yearly
reflection that Jason talked about what
is the way that you like to relate what
is a way that you like to reflection
process for improving something you're
leading with your organization I think
the way we facilitate learning from our
past really can set the tone for the
culture we are establishing or
reinforcing I'm especially interested in
facilitating reflection and what we have
done in the past to encourage the
adoption of a culture of empowerment any
tips on doing it yeah so from the
perspective of a company that that was
the framing equation right I will say
this I think reflection is absolutely
critical I think waiting to do it yearly
is a real mistake now I like Jason's
breakdown I think it was I like I wish I
wonder so I like that I did this I wish
I had done that I wonder if I did this
what would happen and I think that that
was really interesting I've never heard
anybody say it like that I like that a
lot
I am a bigger believer in every day
every day and cultivating a crushing
sense of guilt when you're not doing it
to have a list of the most important
things that you can be doing at any time
to move towards your goals ago and in
that is a built-in mechanism of
reflection what what I'm doing now is it
actually working and that's what you
really have to do and that will allow
you to change your strategy like in real
time in real time in real time
agent Smith you just walked in hi
Elizabeth
one of the things that we were talking
about the other day is our current
strategy with our socials is to push
every ball up the hill at the same time
and I've been taking some
pride like how rapidly our ecosystem
wide thing is moving and then I just
started thinking but how does the world
really work because I was sweating for
you right so I thought God II have to
keep going out to these guests and I
know every time you tell people
ecosystem wide were like 250,000 like
that's a big number but then they're
going to go look at their preferred one
right so whether it's YouTube or
Instagram or Facebook and they're only
going to see say 75,000 and they're
gonna be like wait a second I thought
you said 250,000 so then we're asking
them to like go do the math and like add
up and it's people don't work like that
yeah so then AJ Smith and I were like
well maybe we should collapse all of our
efforts down to one everything will keep
growing is organically as it's going to
grow but in terms of putting all of our
time energy and resources like what one
do we do so that we get one number up to
a point of looking way more powerful
when somebody goes to check it out and I
think we decided what YouTube that
wasn't a very committed answer which is
interesting cuz I know why it's not
committed if he wants to test first
respect that's our dynamic he wants to
test for us to make sure that the
strategy is going to make sense and then
we'll go so fire a bullet before you
fire a cannonball literally he is the
company conscience which i think is
brilliant
sorry I can't see him but I heard his
yes and I pictured him doing this okay
never exactly did literally be exactly
what he did
you were very own brand Jerrod very
brand amazing so yeah you kind of hopped
on something that he talked about yeah
and something that I could jump in real
quick and say this is what I do when it
comes to booking of course with bookings
you're faced with so many challenges
trying to get people to come to any show
I don't care how big your show is do you
say better to come back as a flatworm
than its a Booker live reincarnation to
thank yous so many different terms with
that phrasing yes a homeless person
flatworm a dog even though I think a dog
would be a great life so yeah so jason
says you know you can hear know so many
times and
and but just figure out a way to get
them to say yes we have you move the
excuses
yeah remove the excuses and to me I mean
again it's like there's always an excuse
and people are always going to say no it
is for many not all but especially in
this business it's easier to say no and
not have to deal with you know
collaborating or doing anything for you
or just ignoring you people do that too
but you just keep coming and coming
until you figure out the creative way
for them to say yes and I'll be the
first admit sometimes several times you
have to remind me about that I'll come
back and be like yeah you know the
answer is no up and out and you're like
no no you know okay you've got to figure
out a way for them to say yes figure it
out and every time you say that it hits
home on my hands right and that's my
philosophy but I got to get reminded
about it I think people in general
should be reminded that you're going to
hear know a lot but it's easy to lay
down and be like they said no but no man
you got to figure out a way creatively
for them to say yes so I want to get to
that something I cannot tell you how
game-changing the following game is and
if people would immediately adopt it
funny that I have this mug today so this
is the game no [__] what would it
take I love that game so much and when
you actually stop and play it so take
Stephen King I am hell-bent to get
Stephen King on the show you've been a
long-standing ally it's not an easy
process and so I started saying all
right what do we need to do now I know
that the no [__] answer is I need to
my thing is if you get me in the room I
can close its getting in the room that's
hard okay so if we can get me the room
the reason is I meet people from a place
of genuine appreciation and maybe more
importantly knowledge I know them I
Stephen King legitimately changed the
course of my life which I know he's
going to want to hear right that feels
good going back to the things and nobody
has to tell you to hear it about right
for him to
know that he changed my life that
because of that I've succeeded at a very
high level but that he was the that
first lead Domino of getting me to read
so I know that the no [__] answer is
I need to stand outside the gate of this
house like that's the truth and until I
do that I have not done everything in my
power to do it because in five minutes
with him I can get him to understand I
know so much about your artistic world
like I've read so many of your works
they've had deep impact on me that they
become a core part Ram so but I said the
first step is let me write him a letter
get him a letter so I wrote him a letter
and I made so many references subtly in
the language of the letter that only he
would understand in fact you even pinged
me and said yeah all right this is cool
I'll get it to him but out of curiosity
why sai si I now anybody that's read The
Dark Tower series was exactly why I
addressed it to him as Sai Sai King and
there were other references and all that
kind of stuff and I literally had to
draw back because I was like you want to
seem like a fan without seeming like a
crazy finger so I was like I tried to
walk that line but no [__] what
would it take right like - what extreme
would I have to go another thing that I
could do that when I'm standing like
this is how the game is played imagine
when I'm standing outside his window I'm
on a call here and I just say into the
phone now but then three of the people
that he respects most in the world call
him and they just say look out your
window and he looks out his window and
it's like oh my god there's like some
creepy fan outside holding a Jew box
above him right exactly
another person on the phone says you
need to talk to that kid for exactly
four minutes and thirty seconds I'm
telling you it's worth it
I can't tell you why but you need to go
do that we could make that happen right
we could get to three people that are
important in his life that he would take
the phone call if it rang and it's about
finding okay who are those who people
how do I add value to the
how do I really and I can keep going but
that's the game that's no [__] what
would it take you get to that thing
you're like if that happened I know it
would work and then you back into like
how would we actually do that because I
know if I'm standing outside this gate
he's going to think it's creepy as [__]
it was like now okay if I know that but
I know I have to get in the room into a
room where he doesn't necessarily want
me to like I need people to vouch for me
now it's a lot easier to get other
people that are tangential to him
there's satellites where they don't have
a fan base so going and being meaningful
to them probably a lot easier than going
directly to him because there's a lot of
people clamoring to be meaningful to him
so and you just start chunking the
problem down like that that's really
important and that's what we did at
Quest how do you get people to eat
healthy make them want to eat healthy
like make them actually the act of
eating that food triggers all the same
dopamine release and all that but eating
a candy bar would do I think I've worked
yes I know that would work how do you
get people to change their frame of
reference even if they don't want to
have the things that they're already
consuming the characters that they look
up to be people that have an empowering
belief system so that they just start
adopting the phrases and the quotes and
all that that's empowering versus the
things that are like there was a I don't
watch TV now so I can tell you but there
was a real time when I was watching
comedies and stuff on TV where was like
they saw themselves as doofuses dumb
asses lazy people that the man was
holding them down and so you just sort
of quietly adopt all those beliefs and
not even really realize anything and so
it's like having to inject into popular
culture way more empowering belief
systems
alright we have three minutes and I
figure there's no way we can get through
this without talking about Michael
Jordan yeah I guess you know it's one of
his heroes many people see value and
understanding Michael Jordan psyche one
of the things that he mentioned it stood
out to me was you know Jordan air with
the first time we saw the athlete
emerging as a brand so I guess talked
about the significance of that well now
you're talking the the significance of
anyone as a brand is about what that
person represents
Zen so this goes back to as a brand
whether you're creating a personal brand
or whether you're creating a protein bar
or whether you're creating an infra
mater on your studio that imprimatur
Disney impact Theory coca-cola Nike like
whatever that thing is it needs to stand
for something Apple great example it
needs to stand for something you have to
transcend your products so if Michael
Jordan's product is that position he was
a point guard yeah so if his product is
entertaining people through the position
of point guard on basketball he's got to
transcend that and so what he came to
represent was excellence now once he
represents excellence now Nike can say
merely having him in our shoes makes our
shoes associated to excellence okay and
that's how that game works and when you
can make your brand stand for something
other than your products you can bring
different products in and out but your
brand still stands for something so
that's why I just do not understand how
every studio on the planet is not trying
to emulate not copy Disney like we're
not going to copy Disney we do not stand
for the magic of childhood that's not
what we're going to give up we stand for
empowerment right that's it period
playing simple but I look at how Disney
pulled it off so first of all he is a
human being stood up front that's what
he stood for he stood for like that
middle America that small-town American
vibe the being able to leave your door
unlocked the the beauty the
trustworthiness of human beings the
optimism the sort of Pollyanna Pollyanna
ISM of life right that's everything that
he did fed into that lens right you just
knew that his movies were going to have
moral that they were going to be about
doing good and being good all of it like
you were never going to be surprised by
a character who secretly gets ahead by
being a jerk never never going to happen
in the Disney movie the the person is a
jerk is always going to get their
comeuppance in the end so when you think
about what impact theory means and how
it's going to transcend like we're not
comic books we're not TV shows we're not
movies we're empowerment and the brand
will always stand for that that's why we
can do a show like this it's why we can
do impact theory but we're never
literally if we brought some
let's say John Paul DeJoria who was
amazing Oh God when you watch this
episode you're like why can't there be
more people like this but if in the end
he was like Tom look I'm just going to
be really real with you I got to where I
am by I just take advantage of people
you just have to be prepared to step on
people's necks it's just the way of the
world you have to be prepared to do it
I'm not releasing that episode right
unless like in it somehow I can flip it
convince them whatever in real time like
I'm just I'm not releasing an episode
where it appears that I or us as a
studio are backing that mentality no
[__] way that that is so a not what I
believe and it's so off-brand that it
then confuses the brain right so there
are a lot of rumors about Jordan whether
his hiatus into baseball was because he
was actually secretly gambling and all
this stuff and people didn't want to
tarnish his reputation and I don't know
that that's true by the way and let's
just assume that it's not I don't I want
him to be exactly what he appears
represent which is excellence it's
important to have that it's important to
have a beacon that stands for that and
that's why I think people freaked out so
much about Tiger Woods is because they
wanted him as a brand to represent
something now as a human being it's very
difficult and it's one of the reasons
that I I refused to not ever swear
because I believed in the power of that
language and I get it I am diminishing
the size of my audience by doing so and
it's something I think a lot about like
have to be very careful but I don't ever
want me as a person to represent
something I'm not actually so people
like Tigers brand could have allowed for
this is going to sound crazy
it could aloud have allowed for
infidelity whatever you wanted because
you define who you are you define what
you stand for but if your vibe is going
to be like all wholesome all the time
and part of the reasons that I swear is
to make it clear I do not stand for like
all wholesome all the time like That's
not me right whatever you're going to
define your brand as like you have to
hold true to that otherwise you confuse
your brand and then
don't know what the [__] it is and and
it diminishes it that makes perfect
sense it's like a Marilyn Manson finally
decided like a you know what I'm gonna
come back and wear a priest outfit or
come back and wear a priest outfit but
now you have to be completely consistent
oh yeah you can't ever deviate you can't
go back and like confuse it all through
you can change your brand at any time
you may fall find though your audience
falls off at that point so because now
you have to reestablish redefine rebuild
but the one thing that I think is
absolutely paramount for longevity is
reinvention that's the only way right so
and that's something I think about us as
the studio is while I don't I can't
fathom I will ever believe that the way
to a fulfilled life is something that
has anything to do with something other
than empowerment but if I did cool I
would reinvent but even within the genre
of knowing that everything we're always
going to do is always going to be around
empowerment we're going to have to
reinvent and we will look very different
five years now that we look now
certainly very different ten 20 years
and when I think about how long it's
going to take us to really overtake
Disney as a cultural center piece the
one really creating the water it's going
to take a long long time so we're going
to have to constantly reinvent in that
process I agree with that well we are
out of time there you have it lots of
deep thoughts out of the Jason vein
episode yeah I certainly learned a lot
from these talks of Tom so I hope you
guys did and Wow boom thank you guys so
much for watching this is an awesome
episode Jason Maidan is incredible and
by the way if you haven't already
noticed I am wearing our latest addition
to the impact Theory store which is the
impact Theory elemental t-shirt be sure
to check it out and also will giveaway
for the first person that can accurately
tell us why it's 119 and why it's 1.41 7
we will give you a free impact Theory
elemental shirt so drop that in hit us
up at connected impact Theory comm with
your answers and we will be picking a
winner so thank you guys so much for
joining us today this is a weekly show
so if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary
take care
you